<head>
  <meta charset="UTF-8">
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../style.css">
  <title>time to open blogs...</title>
  <link rel="shortcut icon" href="favicon.ico">
</head>
<div id="sitelinks">
  <a href="../index.html">Home</a><br>
  <a href="../blogindex.html">Blog</a>
</div>

# Machine Learning writes half of my Code

### An Introduction to Tabnine

In my last semester I took our Software Development capstone course.  It teaches agile development practices and incorporates those practices into a team project.  During long nights of pair programming on Discord I noticed someone in my group basically had an autocompleter writing code for him.  Previous autocompleters I've been aware of and used really only completed one word at a time.

Anyway, I asked him about it and he said that it's a paid vim plugin (BIG smh) that he got access to for free a few years ago when it started.  I just dropped it after that, because I wasn't really interested in paying for an autocompleter to use in free software (rofl).

A few weeks later he told me that it was free along.  They had plans to make it paid, but I guess they didn't.  He told me it was called Tabnine, and it uses machine learning to write whole lines of code.

I use Emacs, so I added a quick `use-package` line and went to town.  I have to say I'm not dissappointed.  This thing not only writes lines of code, but it also writes nearly whole english sentences (something I discovered by starting this blog).  I didn't look too far into it, but I'm pretty sure it learns from every file in the root directory of a project, so this thing is pretty deadly.

If you're just using an out-of-the-box autocompleter like Company or something, I highly reccommend checking out Tabnine.

### Further Reading

[Tabnine](https://www.tabnine.com/)  
[company-tabnine](https://github.com/TommyX12/company-tabnine)  
#100DaysToOffload  
