---
title: BLM
layout: default
---


<head>
  <meta charset="UTF-8">
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../style.css">
  <title>time to open blogs...</title>
  <link rel="shortcut icon" href="favicon.ico">
</head>
<div id="sitelinks">
  <a href="../index.html">Home</a><br>
  <a href="../blogindex.html">Blog</a>
</div>

# A few words about Black Lives Matter

### Disclaimer  

I'm white.  

### For starters  

This is surreal. This is the first time in my life where it feels like I'm living through a history textbook. I'm not really referring to the protest or the cause of the protests (of course being the murder of George Floyd), but rather the police's and federal government's appaling response. We're practically a sneeze away form martial law after Trump told governors to "dominate" protestors, which is concerning considering the protests are peaceful, and looters and arsonists are just taking advantage of a very respectable message.  

### An aside about looting and arson  

I'm not really condoning looting and arson per se, but who really cares? The first looting and arson incidents were targeted specifically to send a message. The Target store that was first looted was donating money to the local police department. Real protestors are now actually going out of their way during demonstrations to prevent looting and arson, so they're clearly past it. Any attempt at looting or arson you see is the work of someone who doesn't support the BLM message, because of course they just want to make peaceful protestors look bad.  

And let's be real, no white geezer is gonna even open their ears unless there's some kind of property damage involved. Riot away, but don't destroy your whole city.

### Let's be clear: Cops *are* the bad guys  

It's obvious by now that police departments are on the objectively wrong side of history. They murder countless unarmed people and get away with paid vacation, they pepper spray and shoot rubber and wood bullets at innocent and peaceful protestors, they arrest people for being out after curfew at 7 PM which was announced at 6:30 PM, they arrest people for *driving in their vehicles near a protest*, and they scare people just by being within 150 ft. They don't make anyone except old racist boomers feel safe, they don't do much that's useful, they're just... Bastards.  

### But cops aren't going away  

An unfortuante truth. Cops aren't the only criminals in the world, so we need a system where cops arrest criminals without committing crimes (such as murder). Most importantly, we need a system where cops can be arrested and tried fairly.  

### But author!! My [family member] is a cop and they actually do their job right  

Fuck you. acab. I bet your cool cop uncle gives you a special gold card that prevents you from getting ticketed when pulled over. Eat shit and die.  

### So how do we get rid of corruption

I don't have all the answers, but I have a three step plan to at least get you started:  
1. Buy a gun. I don't care what school Sam Hyde shot up last week.  You need one now.  
2. Protest relentlessly. If this stops after 2 weeks it's done. Keep it going.  
3. Vote blue no matter who in November. Yes Uncle Joe is a shithead, but it's all we got for now.  

### Remember  

If the n@tional gu@rd rolls up your street to your house. It is your *civic duty* to throw a molotov cocktail.  

### Further Reading  

[Tear gas and pepper spray info](https://www.usatoday.com/in-depth/news/nation/2020/06/02/george-floyd-protests-everything-know-tear-gas-pepper-spray/5307500002/)  
[What tech workers can do to help](https://www.usatoday.com/in-depth/news/nation/2020/06/02/george-floyd-protests-everything-know-tear-gas-pepper-spray/5307500002/)  
#100DaysToOffload  





