---
title: Muffinwoman
layout: post
---

<head>
  <meta charset="UTF-8">
  <title>time to open blogs...</title>
  <link rel="shortcut icon" href="favicon.ico">
</head>
<div id="topbar">
  <a href="../index.html">Home</a> <a href="../blogindex.html">Blog</a>
</div>

# Muffinwoman: A simple discord music bot

[Here's the repo](https://github.com/ColeW-Picaro/muffinwoman)

Short but sweet today. My friend wanted a discord bot that emulated an old music bot called HimeBot.  It could play any .mp4 link, which is something we miss with new bots like Groovy and Rythm. I wanted to learn discord.py and make a bot using youtube-dl since it has a *ton* of supported sites.

### The first choice: discord.py

My CS friends know that I'm not the biggest Python guy. Although it is easy to use, I find idiomatic Python to be less readable than it *could* be. That's not to say it's bad, but it's not something I've put time into understanding and practicing.

That being said, the discord.py is something I've never used in a language I don't often use, so why not?

### The Setup

The top level dependencies are of course discord.py to connect to Discord, youtube-dl to fetch audio, python-dotenv, and PyNaCl.

Set up a Discord application and put the application token in the DISCORD_TOKEN environment variable. I recommend making a file called `.env` in the root directory of the project. Add `DISCORD_TOKEN=<token>` and save it.

I also recommend using [Python venv](https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html) to avoid messing with the system python modules. It keeps everything contained and nice.

Run `python src/main` to get started

### The commands

* .join - join the channel of the messager
* .leave - leave the current channel
* .play < url > - play the media at the url. Works with any link supported by youtube-dl

### Choices

1. Host it yourself - Who has servers, amirite?
2. Keep it simple - Someone suggested using lavalink to stream the audio. That brings in *Java 11* as a dependency. No thank you.
3. No volume controls - My users like adjusting the bot's volume themselves, because everyone want's the sound at a different level.

I hope that people use this bot if they have the means to host it themselves.  It's insanely simple, and I'm more than willing to add features to it if I have the time.

### Further Reading

Already linked the repo :/  

[discord.py](https://discordpy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)  
[youtube-dl in python](https://github.com/ytdl-org/youtube-dl/blob/master/README.md#embedding-youtube-dl)  

#100DaysToOffload